milkvisits patch (#3114)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-968.mdx

id: usaco-968
source: USACO Silver 2019 December
title: Milk Visits
author: Qi Wang, Tanish Tyagi, Kevin Sheng
---

> [Official Analysis (c++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_milkvisits_silver_dec19.html)

Reviewer: c++ or C++

Author: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_milkvisits_silver_dec19.html)
```

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N + M)$

We perform a search on the tree, identifying connected components of cows that
all have the same breed.

> In the sample test case, there's $3$ connected components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sample test case, there are $3$ connected components:
```

Author: uh could you elaborate? both seem non-awkward tbh

Reviewer: the first one is grammatically wrong (i think)

   be unsatisfied. ($0$)

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>
#include <cassert>
#include <vector>
#include <algorithm>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;
using std::vector;

int main() {
	std::ifstream read("milkvisits.in");
	int farm_num;
	int query_num;
	read >> farm_num >> query_num;

	vector<char> farms(farm_num);
	for (char& f : farms) {
		read >> f;
		assert(f == 'G' || f == 'H');
	}

	vector<vector<int>> neighbors(farm_num);
	for (int f = 0; f < farm_num - 1; f++) {
		int f1, f2;
		read >> f1 >> f2;

> 		neighbors[--f1].push_back(--f2);

Reviewer: would be more clear if decrements were done in line above
